Add Proposal 306: A Tor Implementation of IPv6 Happy Eyeballs (#87)
torproject/torspec: proposals/306-ipv6-happy-eyeballs.txt

   or unavailable.

   One way to select between IPv4 and IPv6 on a dual-stack network is a
   so-called "Happy Eyeballs" algorithm as per RFC 8305. In one, a client
   attempts the preferred IP family, whether IPv4 or IPv6. Should it work,
   the client sticks with the preferred IP family. Otherwise, the client
   attempts the alternate version. This means if a dual-stack client has
   both IPv4 and IPv6, and IPv6 is unreliable, preferred or not, the
   client uses IPv4, and vice versa. However, if IPv4 and IPv6 are both
   equally reliable, and IPv6 is preferred, we use IPv6.

   In Proposal 299, we have attempted a IP fallback mechanism using failure
   counters and preferring IPv4 and IPv6 based on the state of the counters.
   However, Prop299 was not standard Happy Eyeballs and an alternative,
   standards-compliant proposal was requested in [P299-TRAC] to avoid issues
   from complexity caused by randomness.

   This proposal describes a Tor implementation of Happy Eyeballs and is
   intended as a successor to Proposal 299.

2. Address/Relay Selection

   This section describes the necessary changes for address selection to
   implement Prop306.

> 2.1. Extend Info Structure Changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.1. Address Handling Changes
```

   To be able to handle Happy Eyeballs in Tor, we will need to modify the
   data structures used for connections to guards, namely the extend info

>    structure.

Reviewer: We need to list the different ways Tor clients can connect into the network:
```suggestion
   structure.

   Entry nodes are usually guards, but some clients don't use guards:
     * bootstrapping clients can connect to fallback directory mirrors or
        authorities,
     * v3 single onion services can use IPv4 or IPv6 addresses to connect
        to rendezvous points, and
     * clients can be configured to disable entry guards.
   Bridges are out of scope for this proposal, because Tor does not support
   multiple IP addresses in a single bridge line.
```

   The extend info structure should contain both an IPv4 and an IPv6 address.
   This will allow us to try IPv4 and the IPv6 addresses should both be
   available on a relay and the client is dual-stack.

   When parsing relay descriptors and filling in the extend info data
   structure, we need to fill in both the IPv4 and IPv6 address if they both
   are available. If only one family is available for a relay (IPv4 or IPv6),
   we should fill in the address for preferred family and leave the alternate

>    family null.

Reviewer: I agree, the implementation-specific parts of this section should be deleted. (The parts that talk about extend infos.)

But we should keep the parts that talk about the different ways that a client can connect to the tor network, and how we need IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

> 2.2. Relay Selection Changes

Reviewer: This change is incorrect.

We need to also talk about fallbacks, authorities, v3 single onion services, and clients with entry guards disabled: 
https://github.com/torproject/torspec/pull/87/files#r309478648

   In Proposal 283, we have allowed microdescriptor consensus documents to

>    contain IPv6 addresses. As clients download microdescriptors, Prop283

Reviewer: This information has some typos:
```suggestion
   contain IPv6 addresses. Most clients download microdescriptor
   consensuses when bootstrapping, so Prop283
```

   makes it possible to implement Prop306.

   When we select candidates for the entry guard, we should select at least

>    one relay with an IPv6 address. This makes it possible for an IPv6-only

Reviewer: One out of 3 primary guards isn't great for redundancy, but we can't afford any more until we have more IPv6 relays. Let's make this a consensus parameter and option like NumPrimaryGuards:
    NumIPv6Guards NUM

    If UseEntryGuards is set to 1, we will try to pick NUM routers that support IPv6 for our primary guard list, which is the set of routers we strongly prefer when connecting to the Tor network. If NUM is 0, we try to learn the number from the guard-n-primary-guards-ipv6 consensus parameter, and default to 1 if the consensus parameter isn’t set. (Default: 0)

   client to bootstrap. Otherwise we would have failures if all the selected
   guard candidates only have IPv4 addresses.

3. Relay Connections

   If there is an existing authenticated connection, we should use it
   similar to how we used it pre-Prop306.

>    If there is no existing authenticated connection for an extend info,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If there is no existing authenticated connection to an entry node,
```

   or a 1.5 second delay, we try the alternative address.

   On the first successful TCP connection Tor attempts to authenticate
   immediately. On the first authentication success, Tor closes the other
   connection.

   This design is the most reliable for clients, but increases the connection
   load on dual-stack guards and authorities. For instance, this can be used
   to amplify a DoS attack on the Tor network.

3.1.3. TCP Connection to Preferred Address On First TCP Success

   In this design, we will connect via TCP to the first preferred address. On
   a failure or after a 1.5 second delay, we attempt to connect via TCP to the
   alternate address. On a success, Tor attempts to authenticate and closes
   the other connection.

   This design is the closest to RFC 8305 and is similar to how Happy Eyeballs
   is implemented in a web browser.

3.2. Recommendations for Implementation of Section 3.1 Proposals

   We should start with implementing and testing the implementation as
   described in Section 3.1.1 (First Successful Authentication), and then
   doing the same for the implementations described in 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 if

>    desired or required.

Reviewer: I suggest that we put the preferred option in the proposal, and move the non-preferred options to an appendix.
